Editorial for Admin UI index operations (#2421)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _dashboards/admin-ui-index/index.md

---
layout: default

> title: Index management in OpenSearch Dashboards

Reviewer: Maybe rename this to "Index and snapshot management" because snapshot management is not part of index management.

nav_order: 1
has_children: true
redirect_from:
  - /dashboards/admin-ui-index/
---

# Index management in OpenSearch Dashboards
Introduced 2.5
{: .label .label-purple }

> Previously, users relied on REST APIs or YML configurations for basic administrative operations and interventions. This release takes the first step toward a unified administration panel in OpenSearch Dashboards with the launch of several index management UI enhancements. The new interface provides a more user-friendly way to run common indexing and data stream operations. Now you can perform create, read, update, and delete (CRUD) and mapping for indexes, index templates, and aliases through the UI as well as open, close, reindex, shrink, and split indexes. The UI runs index status and data validation before submitting requests and lets you compare changes with previously saved settings before making updates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Previously, users relied on REST APIs or YML configurations for basic administrative operations and interventions. This release takes the first step toward a unified administration panel in OpenSearch Dashboards with the launch of several index management UI enhancements. The new interface provides a more user-friendly way to run common indexing and data stream operations. Now you can perform create, read, update, and delete (CRUD) and mapping operations for indexes, index templates, and aliases through the UI. Additionally, you can open, close, reindex, shrink, and split indexes. The UI runs index status and data validation before submitting requests and lets you compare changes with previously saved settings before making updates.
```

> Previously, users relied on REST APIs or YML configurations for basic administrative operations and interventions. This release takes the first step toward a unified administration panel in OpenSearch Dashboards with the launch of several index management UI enhancements. The new interface provides a more user-friendly way to run common indexing and data stream operations. Now you can perform create, read, update, and delete (CRUD) and mapping for indexes, index templates, and aliases through the UI as well as open, close, reindex, shrink, and split indexes. The UI runs index status and data validation before submitting requests and lets you compare changes with previously saved settings before making updates.

Reviewer 2: Should it be YAML? YAML is commonly used in our documentation.

Introduced 2.5
{: .label .label-purple }

> The admin user interface (UI) for index operation allows you to perform common index operations through a user-friendly interface and prevent unintentional changes. While there have been some administration user experiences in OpenSearch Dashboards (ISM, Alerting on HTTP inputs, Security, etc.), there is now a unified web UI experience for cluster administrators to manage their deployment's indexes.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The admin user interface (UI) for index operations allows you to perform common index operations through a user-friendly interface and prevent unintentional changes.
```

Reviewer 3: My feeling is that the second sentence is unnecessary.
